---
layout: post
title:  "2017, It's a Wrap (And With Good Riddance)"
date:   2017-12-31 12:00:00 +0000
category: website
tags: tech website jekyll
draft: true
subtitle: "It was a pretty awful year for me, but there were some highlights. Lets try to focus on them."
img: "/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/header.jpg"
---

2017 has been quite a defining year for me, and not in a good way either. If
you cast your mind back to this time last year, I had just finished off a
nice [lil' post](https://medium.com/@mbell_gb/eoy2016-832ca999c6ea) about
what I got up to in 2016 (this was) before Medium introduced their terrible
new monetisation scheme. This year's post may be a... little bit different.

But first, a few stats about my year.

<aside>
<div class="cards-4">
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card-body">
      <h3>312 hours</h3>
      <p>Time hacking at hackathons</p>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card-body">
      <h3>11710 km</h3>
      <p>Distance travelled by air</p>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card-body">
      <h3>1031</h3>
      <p>GitHub contributions this year</p>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card-body">
      <h3>2</h3>
      <p>Burnouts</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
</aside>

# Travel And Hackathons

## Barcelona, Spain

![Left: View of the Pyrenees from a plane. Center: Blue skies and a balcony at UPC. Right: Our project next to the Amazon Echo.](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/barcelona.jpg)

I got the opportunity to visit the wonderful city of Barcelona to take part
in HackUPC back in March. It's a very special city; the architecture was
great, the people were lovely and I came away with far more friends than I
went in with.

Me and some folks from across Europe also built a really handy Alexa skill
which was featured on Devpost. You can learn more about it from the link
below.

<a class="button" href="/projects/chromelexa">The Project</a>

## Toronto, Canada

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/toronto-plane.jpg)

Without a doubt, the highlight of my year was visiting Canada again for
2017's instalment of Hack The North. I booked a longer trip so that I could
do some real sightseeing without being jetlagged as heck, plus got to meet
some friends I had met last year again which was brill!

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/toronto-city.jpg)

Toronto is such a beautiful city. Everyone I met was so friendly and kind,
the food was good and, most importantly, the beer and spirits were fantastic. Even the weather seemed to have treated me well. I'd definitely go back in a heartbeat.

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/toronto-harbour.jpg)

Hack The North itself was a blast too, despite the size of the event there
was a very strong sense of community and sharing. Me and my team's hack
didn't really work out so well, but we had a blast making it. Plus Justin
goddamn Trudeau crashed the opening ceremony, so what more do you want from
an event?

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/toronto-htn.jpg)

## Lausanne, Switzerland

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/lausanne.jpg)

My second trip to Lausanne was just as much fun as the first. Getting to
sleep in a nuclear bunker was something I hadn't done before, but of course
there's a first time for everything. I finally had the time to build a
prototype for the bookmarking application I've always wanted to build, so it
was a productive weekend in my opinion.

One very expensive fondue dinner (it is Switzerland after all) and my first
night in a hostel later, and I was on a tour around the CERN laboratories in
Geneva, courtesy of my friend Sourabh who also organised the hackathon.
Again, an incredbily unique experience and the machinery for the experiments
(especially the antiparticle experiments) were just staggering in their
intricacies.

<a class="button" href="/projects/scrapbook">Scrapbook Project</a>

## Helsinki, Finland

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/helsinki-plane.jpg)

I had a great time visiting Helsinki again for the Junction hackathon, mainly
because (unlike last year) I made the most of the trip and stayed longer than
the two nights I stayed last year. I was fortunate enough that I had some
good friends coming along from the UK as well, and we shared a room in a
hostel for the weekend. The most surprising thing was just how useful having
an actual room is during a hackathon! I don't think I could ever stay in the
venue for the whole event again.

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/helsinki-market.jpg)

As well as attending Junction, we managed to grab tickets for the Hack/Talks
events beforehand, which we all agreed were very interesting. My favourite
was the Javascript talk because I'm a fanatic for JS. No shame. Our hack
ended up mostly being a joke hack; putting Spotify playlists onto the
blockchain. It was still a learning experience since I'd never used the
blockchain before. My verdict? I stil don't use the blockchain.

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/helsinki-junction.jpg)

In between all the busy hacking and building, we managed to squeeze in some
time for some sightseeing. My friend Scott took led us across the harbour to
an island called Suomenlinna, home to a brewery, a restaurant, some hostel,
and a supermarket. It did have some pretty aesthetic views though, such as
the panorama below. The city itself was also very picturesque with all the
Christmas lights up and shining; especially since it was dark all the time so
we were constantly seeing the lights.

![](/assets/img/2017-its-a-wrap/helsinki-suomenlinna.jpg)

# Projects, Uni, Work And Burning Out

And now the good bits are out of the way...

I had two significant burn outs this year, which were not a lot of fun. The
first one occured after pulling three all-nighters in a week to complete my
second year group project, including final testing, documentation and
integration.

# Reflection On My Goals

During my post last year, I made some pretty extreme goals. Did I make them?

## Explore More Of The World

This didn't really happen. Mainly, work and uni, and financials got in the
way of this so I didn't really explore anywhere new. I did, however, get to
revisit places I'd already visited in more detail. So that's nice.

## Improve My Physique

Somewhat. I've been doing more exercise, in particular I've signed up for the
Parkrun programme and attend my local run on a semi-regular basis. Even the
small amount I do has significantly improved my asthma, to the point where I
no longer use an inhaler.

## Drink More Water, Sleep More

Hahahahahahahahahaha. Maybe next year.

## Start Creating Content

This didn't happen at all. This was kinda just because I don't feel like
anything I create would actually be useful; I feel like any content I put out
would have already been done, and this especially applies to talks. Why would
people want to hear about some project I did when others are talking about
cutting edge Javascript?

## Speak At Something

This didn't happen for the same reason as above. I don't really consider
myself to have anything special to offer with regards to talks.

## Write In My Bullet Journal Daily

This started strong and petered off by about March/April. As soon as
deadlines start coming up and my live gets hectic, I start to just focus on
trying to deal with them rather than plan ahead. Which is definitely not a
good habit!

# Looking To Next Year

## Goals

## 365 Days

I'm totally going to steal what a friend of mine did this year and do a
"photo each day" kind of thing. Just out of interest to see how it would turn
out, to be honest.

## Journalling
